style(GPC logs): Style guide edits (#4985)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/logs/forward-logs/google-cloud-platform-log-forwarding.mdx

metaDescription: "Configure a Google Cloud Platform Pub/Sub topic to send logs to New Relic."
redirects:
  - /docs/logs/enable-log-management-new-relic/enable-log-monitoring-new-relic/google-cloud-platform-log-forwarding
---

We support two different methods to forward your logs from a Google Cloud Platform Pub/Sub topic to New Relic.

## Select an option [#gcp-options]

The following may help you decide which option is best for your business needs.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        GCP log forwarding options
      </th>
      <th>
        Considerations
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Headerless API
      </td>
      <td>
        * Best suited for low log volumes, since it performs one API call for each log record it sends.
        * Does not incur any extra cost to your GCP subscription.
        * If your log volume increases, this solution might hit the quota limits of your New Relic account.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Dataflow job
      </td>
      <td>
        * Best suited for larger log volumes, since it groups log records in batches before sending them to New Relic.

>         * Reduces the number of API calls and allows to reduce your quota usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * Reduces the number of API calls and allows you to reduce your quota usage.
```

      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Use headerless API [#gcp-headerless-api]

To send your GCP logs to New Relic using our headerless API:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="ingest-url"
    title="1. Generate a GCP Pub/Sub ingest URL."
  >

  Start by creating an ingest URL for your GCP Pub/Sub topic.

  ![Add more data sources](./images/gcp-add-more-data.png "Add more data sources")

  1. Navigate to [**Logs** in New Relic One](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/logger.log-launcher), and click **Add more data sources**.
  2. Click **Google Cloud Platform**, then select your New Relic account where you want to forward logs, and click **Continue**.
  3. Optional: Configure metadata (attribute-value pairs) to be included in every log event sent to the ingest URL you will generate in the next step.
  4. Click **Generate URL**.
  5. Copy your newly generated **ingest URL** and keep it in a safe place.

  You will use your new ingest URL to configure a Pub/Sub topic that sends logs to New Relic.
  
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="create-gcp-topic"
    title="2. Create a GCP Pub/Sub Topic."
  >

>   Next you will create the GCP Pub/Sub topic that your ingest URL will use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Next you'll create the GCP Pub/Sub topic that your ingest URL will use.
```

  
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="forward-logs"
    title="4. Create routing sink to forward logs to New Relic."
  >

  To finish setup, create a routing sink for your GCP Pub/Sub topic that will forward your logs to New Relic.

  ![Create GCP Pub/Sub logs router sink](./images/gcp-create-sink.png "Create GCP Pub/Sub logs router sink")

  1. Navigate to the [GCP Logs Router Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/router).
  2. Click **Create Sink**.
  3. Enter a **Sink name** and **Sink description**, then click **Next**.
  4. Under **Select sink service**, select **Cloud Pub/Sub topic**, and select the [Pub/Sub topic](#create-gcp-topic) you previously created.
  5. Configure remaining filters as needed, then click **Create sink** to complete setup.
  
  </Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

## Use Dataflow job [#gcp-dataflow]

To send your GCP logs to New Relic using a Dataflow job, you will use our Dataflow template. Before you begin, make sure you have the following tools on your local computer:

* A Unix terminal for Linux or MacOS
* [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
* [Java JDK 8 or higher](https://adoptopenjdk.net/index.html)

> * [Apache Maven 3.2 or higher](https://maven.apache.org/). Earlier versions have been observed to fail during the compilation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Apache Maven 3.2 or higher](https://maven.apache.org/). We've seen earlier versions fail during the compilation process.
```

* The [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install), which includes `gcloud` and `gsutil` command line tools

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="dataflow-login-gcp"
    title="1. Log into your Google Cloud Platform account."
  >

  Run the following command and follow the prompts to log into GCP and select your cloud project:

  ```
  gcloud init
  ```

  Using the wizard, you will select a cloud project to use, and you will be able to optionally select a default compute region and zone for the resources you create using `gcloud` or `gsutil`. We will not presume a default project, location or region for the following commands.
  
  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="dataflow-repo"
    title="2. Clone the DataflowTemplates GitHub repository."
  >

  1. Clone the DataflowTemplates GitHub repository using the following command:

  ```
  git clone https://github.com/newrelic-forks/DataflowTemplates.git
  ```

>   2. Enter the created directory to execute the following commands:

Reviewer: commands or command? Looks like just one.

          --templateLocation=gs://${BUCKET_NAME}/template/PubsubToNewRelic \
          --runner=DataflowRunner \
      "
  ```

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="dataflow-job"
    title="7. Run the template as a Dataflow job."
  >

  Execute the following command to start shipping logs using a Dataflow job that reads from your Pub/Sub topic:

  ```bash
  gcloud dataflow jobs run ${JOB_NAME} \
      --gcs-location=gs://${BUCKET_NAME}/template/PubsubToNewRelic \
      --region=${REGION} \
      --parameters "inputSubscription=projects/${PROJECT_ID}/subscriptions/${INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION_NAME},licenseKey=${NR_LICENSE_KEY}"
  ```

  This command only requires these two values:
  
  * The input PubSub subscription used to read log messages
  * The New Relic license key used to send your logs
  
  For other values, the command uses default configuration settings that you can further [customize as needed](#dataflow-config).

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="dataflow-config"
    title="8. Optional: Tune up your Dataflow log forwarder job."
  >

  Here is a reference of available options you can use to further tune up the execution of your Dataflow log forwarder job.

>   <table>

Reviewer: Consider expanding the column width for that first column in the following table - some of the parameter names are pretty smushed, and the descriptions will more easily wrap.

    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
          Configuration parameter
        </th>

        <th>
          Description
        </th>
      </tr>
    </thead>

    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
          `licenseKey`
          **Required.**
        </td>

        <td>
          New Relic license key.
        </td>
      </tr>

      <tr>
        <td>
          `inputSubscription`
          **Required.**
        </td>

        <td>
          The Cloud Pub/Sub subscription used to consume logs. Use this format:

          ```
          projects/<project-id>/subscriptions/<subscription-name>
          ```
        </td>
      </tr>

      <tr>
        <td>
          `logsApiUrl`
        </td>

        <td>

>           New Relic's Log API url. This should be routable from the VPC in which the Dataflow pipeline runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          New Relic's Log API URL. This should be routable from the VPC in which the Dataflow pipeline runs.
```

          Default:

          ```
          https://log-api.newrelic.com/log/v1
          ```
        </td>
      </tr>

      <tr>
        <td>
          `batchCount`
        </td>

        <td>

>           Maximum number of log records to aggregate into a batch before sending them to NewRelic in a single HTTP POST request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Maximum number of log records to aggregate into a batch before sending them to New Relic in a single HTTP POST request.
```
